okay at this point we took about three
minutes to do a quick organizer then we
took about four to five minutes to do an
opening paragraph where we start with a
big idea narrow to our thesis we've
written body 1 and body 2 we took about
5 minutes a piece on each of those so at
this point we're about 18 minutes and
now we've only got about 12 minutes left
and we've got to do a body 3 a rebuttal
and then a quick closing the closing
will be really easy when we get to that
all right so at this point around body 3
when we did body 1 I talked about
structure body 2 I talked about
transitions body 3 I'm gonna talk about
vivid word choice and using similes or
metaphors to spice up your paper so this
is something you might want to do
especially if you're a strong creative
writer and you can work similes and
metaphors into your paper that always
impresses people it's your ability to
write ok body 3 writing an effective
body paragraph another good way to spice
up your body paragraph as to include
similes or metaphors that help the
reader envision what you are talking
about for example in this sample body
paragraph pay attention there you're
going to use a couple metaphors and
similes and blend those right into their
third body paragraph furthermore too
much television is damaging to a
person's mind if teenagers watch too
much television their minds are held
hostage by flickering images of shiny
cars beautiful women toothpaste
deodorant and pepto-bismol these images
crowd out the adolescents imaginations
and take away their ability to create
the minds of frequent television
Watchers become more passive with time
as a result they become mindless sheep
unable to think for themselves when the
United States has too many passive non
thinking citizens this allows the
corrupt to manipulate the people this is
what happens when people allow a machine
to dissolve their brains like jello in
the hot August Sun alright when you look
at this third body paragraph they use
the transition furthermore too much
television is damaging to a person's
mind there is our topic for this
paragraph first metaphor of teenagers
watch too much television their minds
are held hostage that's a metaphor by
flickering images of shiny cars
beautiful women toothpaste deodorant
pepto-bismol obvious
they just thought of what are some
random things you might see on TV that
we can represent as far as flickering
images of on a TV these images crowd out
the adolescents imagination and take
away their ability to create the minds
of frequent television watchers become
more passive a time as a result to
become mindless sheep
here's another metaphor like how they're
using these metaphorical examples to
make their point unable to think for
themselves it's kind of a cliche but it
works when the United States has too
many passive non thinking citizens this
allows the Krupp to manipulate the
people so they also explain what are the
negative results if people are just
sitting around watching TV all the time
it can easily be manipulated they're not
thinkers and then they're concluding
sentence this is just naturally smooth
how they transition in this concluding
sentence this is what happens when
people allow a machine to dissolve their
brains like jello and the hot August Sun
they used a simile just this idea if you
let jello sit out in a really hot day it
starts to melt a little bit get a little
bit runny and they said the same thing
happens to your brain so pretty
effective use of a simile here so one
other thing you can do as you're doing
examples you can work metaphors and
similes into your paragraph now if
you're not good at this
if you can't just come up with good
metaphors or similes off the top of your
head don't worry about it just make sure
you're including good vivid examples all
right but if you're good at it you can
think of a good simile to pop in there
or a good metaphor every once in a while
fantastic way to spice up and improve
your writing overall okay this is body
three we're going to take five minutes
to draft body three go to it